Changes 2009
============

20090213
--------

Configurable boldness

Okay, it seems that not all printer drivers behave correctly when they
get «unusual» font weights. New testcase 
srcref:`tests/textprinter/3.py` 
shows whether your
configured PostScript printer does it right. On the other hand the
"Courier New" font looks «too lightweight» to many people on most
printers. So I must make this option customizable. 

N.B.: :mod:`win32.lib.win32con` defines the following names::

  FW_DONTCARE = 0 
  FW_THIN = 100 
  FW_EXTRALIGHT = 200 
  FW_LIGHT = 300 
  FW_NORMAL = 400 
  FW_MEDIUM = 500 
  FW_SEMIBOLD = 600 
  FW_BOLD = 700 
  FW_EXTRABOLD = 800 
  FW_HEAVY = 900 
  FW_ULTRALIGHT = FW_EXTRALIGHT 
  FW_REGULAR = FW_NORMAL 
  FW_DEMIBOLD = FW_SEMIBOLD 
  FW_ULTRABOLD = FW_EXTRABOLD 
  FW_BLACK = FW_HEAVY



20090227
--------

TimTools 0.6.42 released:

- The boldness of bold and normal text is now configurable for
  prnprint.py
  (see [ref NEW:492 How bold is bold? (14.04.07)]).           


20090418
--------

I discovered that :meth:`lino.textprinter.pdfprn.PdfTextPrinter.insertImage`
has changed its behaviour between `0.6.37 <20071123_>`  and 
`0.6.42 <20090227>`_.
Maybe because I upgraded the ReportLab toolkit between those releases. 

PdfTextPrinter.insertImage() does not support *behindText*.
Images are always placed over any text that occurs before them in 
the input file.


20090419 Working on tests
-------------------------

- runtests.py now recurses into subdirs.

- Started to move configuration options from "lino.config" to
  application-specific options. The first option is
  `postscript_printer`.  Its definition has moved from the obsolete
  global :xfile:`lino.cfg` file to a new file :xfile:`runtest.ini`.
  Until now it was accessed in testcases by::
  
    config.win32.get('postscript_printer')
    
  New access code::
  
    self.runtests.options.postscript_printer

- moved my_import and tsttools from lino.misc to lino.tools


20090810
--------

- Bug report: 
  on a Windows XP running on a virtual machine of a Mac, calling for example...
  
  ::
  
    prnprint .\preview.prn
    
  ... causes an error::

    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "prnprint.py", line 153, in <module>
      File "prnprint.py", line 150, in main
      File "lino\console\application.pyo", line 210, in main
      File "prnprint.py", line 139, in run
      File "lino\textprinter\textprinter.pyo", line 198, in readfile
    WindowsError: [Error 123] Die Syntax für den Dateinamen, Verzeichnisnamen oder die Datenträgerbezeichnung ist falsch: '.'


- Released `TIM Tools 0.6.43 <http://lino.googlecode.com/files/timtools-0.6.43-py2exe.zip>`_. which fixes the above bug.

200909
------

- Somewhere in September 2009 I split TimTools out of Lino.

20091228
--------

- There was a problem on a site with two machines, one running Windows XP and the other Vista::

    Lino prnprint
    Homepage: http://lino.saffre-rumma.ee/prnprint.html
    Copyright (c) 2004-2009 Luc Saffre.
    This software comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY and is
    distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License.
    See file COPYING.txt for more information.
    Using Lino 0.6.42, Python 2.5.2 final, Python Windows Extensions, PIL
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "prnprint.py", line 153, in <module>
      File "prnprint.py", line 150, in main
      File "lino\console\application.pyo", line 210, in main
      File "prnprint.py", line 139, in run
      File "lino\textprinter\textprinter.pyo", line 200, in readfile
      File "codecs.pyo", line 626, in readlines
      File "codecs.pyo", line 535, in readlines
      File "codecs.pyo", line 424, in read
      File "encodings\cp1252.pyo", line 15, in decode
    UnicodeDecodeError: 'charmap' codec can't decode byte 0x81 in position 695: character maps to <undefined>
    
  For reasons I don't understand, the system encoding (sys.stdin.encoding) was neither cp437 nor cp850 on both machines, but cp1252. Workaround was to specify manually the encoding of the input file using the ``-e`` parameter of prnprint and prn2pdf.
  

20091229
--------

- Migrated timtools-related changlog entries from Lino repository. 
  Seems that I will maintain a changelog using Sphinx for each of my projects.

.. _latest-news:
